Mpd-info
=======

Outputs current MPD playing song info (artist, album and song) plus scan 
the directory of the song for an album cover.

Mpd-popup
========

Same thing as mpd-info but it's meant to be used together with awesomewm 
naughty library for notification to output the info and the album cover 
in a popup.

**How to use it**

Copy mpd-popup.lua in ~/.config/awesome/ or anywhere in Lua's path. Then 
add to awesomewm's rc.lua:

	require("mpd-popup")

	local coverart_on
	local base_id = 0
	function coverart_show()

		coverart_hide()

		local id, info, cover_path = mpd_main(base_id)

		if id == nil then
			return
		end
		if base_id ~= id then
			local img = image(cover_path)
			local ico = img
			local txt = info
			coverart_on = naughty.notify({
				icon = ico,
				icon_size = 80,
				text = txt,
				timeout = 3,
				position = "bottom_right",
			})
		base_id = id
		end
	end
	
	function coverart_hide()
		if coverart_on ~= nil then
			naughty.destroy(coverart_on)
		end 
	end

Add a timer for the function to trigger itself (usually at the bottom 
but can be everywhere):

	mpdtimer = timer({ timeout = 2 })
	mpdtimer:add_signal("timeout", function () coverart_show() end)
	mpdtimer:start()

for Awesomewm >= 3.5, change `add_signal` with `connect_signal` and use simply
`local img = cover_path` (without image())

After that, every 2 seconds awesome will take care of triggering the function 
and check if the playing song in Mpd has changed; if it has, a nice 
naughty notification will appear with cover art and album, artist and 
song name. It will look for an album art in the song directory with a 
name containing "front" or "folder" or "albumart" or "cover" or, 
finally, "thumb" (in this order). The first that matches will be the one 
shown. If you don't see anything, be sure to have an image containing 
one of these words in the name.

Xmms2 support
=============

Despite the name, there's optional support for Xmms2 daemon too. Instructions 
are like for MPD, only you need to use xmms-popup.lua file and build xmmsinfo.c. 
Substitute all "mpd" occurrences in rc.lua as shown above with "xmms", 
obviously.

Requirements
===========

* [Libmpdclient](http://sourceforge.net/projects/musicpd/files/libmpdclient/) (for MPD)
* [LuaFileSystem](http://keplerproject.github.com/luafilesystem/)
* [Xmms2](https://xmms2.org/wiki/Main_Page) (for Xmms2)

License
=======

see COPYING
